docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md, before:

# Troubleshooting

## 1) `npm run dev` starts but app window is not visible

Symptoms:
- Vite runs on `http://localhost:1420` but no desktop app window appears.

Checks:
1. `npm run dev` runs only frontend; for desktop shell use `npm run tauri dev`.
2. Confirm port is reachable in browser (`http://localhost:1420`).
3. Stop old processes and retry.

## 2) `npm run tauri dev` fails

Checks:
1. Verify Rust is installed:
   ```bash
   rustup show
   ```
2. Verify Tauri dependencies are installed for your OS.
3. Reinstall node packages:
   ```bash
   cd blurt
   rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
   npm install
   ```
4. Retry:
   ```bash
   npm run tauri dev
   ```

## 3) Build passes but release artifacts are missing/mismatched

Checks:
1. Run preflight locally:
   ```bash
   npm run verify:release
   ```
2. Confirm expected policy:
   - Required: Windows artifacts + macOS `.app`
   - Optional: macOS `.dmg`
3. Confirm tag format is supported:
   - Preferred: `blUpdate-vX.Y.Z`
   - Legacy: `blurt-vX.Y.Z`

## 4) Icon update did not apply

Steps:
1. Replace source icon:
   - `blurt/src-tauri/icon.svg`
2. Regenerate platform icons:
   ```bash
   cd blurt
   npm run tauri icon src-tauri/icon.svg
   ```
3. Rebuild:
   ```bash
   npm run tauri build -- --bundles app
   ```

## 5) GitHub workflow fails on Windows/macOS

Checks:
1. Open Actions logs and find failing step (Node setup, Rust install, tauri-action, bundle step).
2. Confirm `package-lock.json` and `blurt/src-tauri/tauri.conf.json` are committed.
3. Re-run failed jobs after correcting config.
4. Validate tag points to intended commit.

## 6) Session data differs between dev and packaged app

Notes:
- `npm run dev` is browser-first; behavior can differ from packaged Tauri app.
- Persistence debugging should be validated in packaged app too:
  ```bash
  npm run tauri build -- --bundles app
  ```
- Always test critical persistence flows in both contexts before release.

## 7) Clean reset to latest release tag

From repo root:

```bash
git fetch --tags --all --prune
git reset --hard blUpdate-v1.1.1
git clean -fd
```

Use the exact tag you want to return to.

Commit message:

feat(cloud): add supabase sync with email+password auth

docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md, after:

# Troubleshooting

## 1) `npm run dev` starts but app window is not visible

Symptoms:
- Vite runs on `http://localhost:1420` but no desktop app window appears.

Checks:
1. `npm run dev` runs only frontend; for desktop shell use `npm run tauri dev`.
2. Confirm port is reachable in browser (`http://localhost:1420`).
3. Stop old processes and retry.

## 2) `npm run tauri dev` fails

Checks:
1. Verify Rust is installed:
   ```bash
   rustup show
   ```
2. Verify Tauri dependencies are installed for your OS.
3. Reinstall node packages:
   ```bash
   cd blurt
   rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
   npm install
   ```
4. Retry:
   ```bash
   npm run tauri dev
   ```

## 3) Build passes but release artifacts are missing/mismatched

Checks:
1. Run preflight locally:
   ```bash
   npm run verify:release
   ```
2. Confirm expected policy:
   - Required: Windows artifacts + macOS `.app`
   - Optional: macOS `.dmg`
3. Confirm tag format is supported:
   - Preferred: `blUpdate-vX.Y.Z`
   - Legacy: `blurt-vX.Y.Z`

## 4) Icon update did not apply

Steps:
1. Replace source icon:
   - `blurt/src-tauri/icon.svg`
2. Regenerate platform icons:
   ```bash
   cd blurt
   npm run tauri icon src-tauri/icon.svg
   ```
3. Rebuild:
   ```bash
   npm run tauri build -- --bundles app
   ```

## 5) GitHub workflow fails on Windows/macOS

Checks:
1. Open Actions logs and find failing step (Node setup, Rust install, tauri-action, bundle step).
2. Confirm `package-lock.json` and `blurt/src-tauri/tauri.conf.json` are committed.
3. Re-run failed jobs after correcting config.
4. Validate tag points to intended commit.

## 6) Session data differs between dev and packaged app

Notes:
- `npm run dev` is browser-first; behavior can differ from packaged Tauri app.
- Persistence debugging should be validated in packaged app too:
  ```bash
  npm run tauri build -- --bundles app
  ```
- Always test critical persistence flows in both contexts before release.

## 7) Cloud mode shows login/setup screen and app does not continue

Checks:
1. Confirm `blurt/.env` exists.
2. Confirm values are set:
   - `VITE_STORAGE_MODE=cloud` (or `hybrid`)
   - `VITE_SUPABASE_URL`
   - `VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
3. Confirm Email OTP / magic link is enabled in Supabase.
4. Confirm tables and RLS are created correctly:
   - [Supabase Setup](./SUPABASE_SETUP.md)

## 8) Cloud mode is read-only

Possible causes:
1. You are offline.
2. You are signed out or auth session expired.
3. Supabase rejected a write (RLS/policy mismatch).

Checks:
1. Reconnect to internet.
2. Sign in again with magic link.
3. Verify RLS policies in [Supabase Setup](./SUPABASE_SETUP.md).

## 9) Clean reset to latest release tag

From repo root:

```bash
git fetch --tags --all --prune
git reset --hard blUpdate-v1.1.1
git clean -fd
```

Use the exact tag you want to return to.
